Snippets (#53640)
zephyrproject-rtos/zephyr: doc/build/snippets/design.rst

  existing built-in snippet without modifying the zephyr repository

- **composable**: it is possible to use multiple snippets at once, for example
  using:

  .. code-block:: console

     west build -S <snippet1> -S <snippet2> ...

- **able to combine multiple types of configuration**: snippets make it possible
  to store multiple different types of build system settings in one place, and
  apply them all together

- **specializable**: for example, it is possible to customize a snippet's
  behavior for a particular board, or board revision

- **future-proof and backwards-compatible**: arbitrary future changes to the
  snippets feature will be possible without breaking backwards compatibility
  for older snippets

- **applicable to purely "software" changes**: unlike the shields feature,
  snippets do not assume the presence of a "daughterboard", "shield", "hat", or
  any other type of external assembly which is connected to the main board

- **DRY** (don't repeat yourself): snippets allow you to skip unnecessary
  repetition; for example, you can apply the same board-specific configuration
  to boards ``foo`` and ``bar`` by specifying ``/(foo|bar)/`` as a regular

>   expression for the settings, which wil then apply to both boards

Author: typo: will

Comparison with Shields
***********************

Snippets were originally developed to bring the :ref:`shields` feature set to a
wider context, and to extend some of the shields feature's design limitations.

As a result, snippets will eventually become a strict generalization of
shields: when this work is complete, it will be possible to specify any shield

> as a snippet. The reverse is not be true: not all snippets can be "expressed"

Author: s/is not be/is not/

> Comparison with Shields
> ***********************
> 
> Snippets were originally developed to bring the :ref:`shields` feature set to a
> wider context, and to extend some of the shields feature's design limitations.
> 
> As a result, snippets will eventually become a strict generalization of
> shields: when this work is complete, it will be possible to specify any shield
> as a snippet. The reverse is not be true: not all snippets can be "expressed"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Snipptes and Shields
***********************

Snippets were originally developed to bring the :ref:`shields` feature set to a
wider context, and to extend some of the shields feature's design limitations.

As a result, snippets will eventually become a strict generalization of
shields: when this work is complete, it will be possible to specify any shield
as a snippet.

Further information can be found in https://github.com/zephyrproject-rtos/zephyr/issues/51834
```

Reviewer: and then remove the rest of the section for now

Author: I'm just going to remove it to avoid an argument.

as a shield.

Here is a list of some limitations of the shields feature not present in the
snippets feature:

- **limited to external ICs**: at least in concept, shields require
  some sort of external hardware
- **not extensible**: adding board support for a shield defined in
  :zephyr_file:`zephyr/boards/shields/` requires modifying the zephyr

>   repository itself

Author: > works fine with a board from downstream repository.

... if there are no required board-specific tweaks for that shield. But that is not always true. Look at all the in-tree shields with board-specific DT overlays.

- **not DRY**: for example, shields require identical board-specific
  devicetree overlays to be specified via multiple identical files on

>   the file system

Reviewer 2: To unblock this PR, please remove "Comparison with Shields" chapter. It is incorrect and gives a false sense of the state of the shields and current snippet support.

Snippets Design
###############

This page documents design considerations related to snippets.

List of Design Goals
********************

> As design goals, snippets are:

Reviewer 2: Can/may a snippet contain piece of code that is built?

Author: I wonder the same thing. If it's useful, I don't see why not. The fun part about having a YAML format is that we can put whatever we want into it. Do you have a use case?

Reviewer 2: For CDC ACM snippets we could have a code-snippet which configures and enables USB device support (new device support requires more runtime confirmation). But there are also situations where only the configuration part (Kconfig + DTS) of snippet is needed without code, for example
thingy53 + CDC ACM UART snippet for logging backend **and** USB initialization + hello_world sampe
vs.
thingy53 + CDC ACM UART snippet for logging backend + any samples/subsys/usb

Author: > For CDC ACM snippets we could have a code-snippet which configures and enables USB device support (new device support requires more runtime confirmation)

I think we should leave this to a future extension once the basics are in place. The snippet.yml file format is designed for future extension.

- **extensible**: for example, it is possible to add board support for an
  existing built-in snippet without modifying the zephyr repository

- **composable**: it is possible to use multiple snippets at once, for example
  using:

  .. code-block:: console

>      west build -s <snippet1> -s <snippet2> ...

Reviewer 3: So this one is wrong

- **DRY** (don't repeat yourself): snippets allow you to skip unnecessary
  repetition, like copy/pasting a snippet's configuration settings for a
  vendor development board into a separate board-specific configuration file
  for a product

Comparison with Shields
***********************

Snippets were originally developed to bring the :ref:`shields` feature set to a
wider context, and to extend some of the shields feature's design limitations.
As a result, snippets are a strict generalization of shields: any shield can be
specified as a snippet, but the reverse is not true: not all snippets can be
"expressed" as a shield.

Here is a list of some limitations of the shields feature not present in the
snippets feature:

- **limited to external ICs**: at least in concept, shields require
  some sort of external hardware
- **not extensible**: adding board support for a shield defined in
  :zephyr_file:`zephyr/boards/shields/` requires modifying the zephyr
  repository itself
- **not DRY**: for example, shields require identical board-specific
  devicetree overlays to be specified via multiple identical files on

>   the file system

Reviewer 2: This is not right, shields does not require identical board-specific devicetree overlays, but one can customize it for a specific board, see [Board compatibility](https://docs.zephyrproject.org/latest/hardware/porting/shields.html#board-compatibility) and  [Board specific shield configuration](https://docs.zephyrproject.org/latest/hardware/porting/shields.html#board-specific-shield-configuration).
